So we're gonna talk about some best
practices and tools and tricks when it
comes to routing, which is, as we know,
with any enterprise grade level app,
we're gonna have different paths and
routing is a very big piece of this.
So when it comes to the pieces that
make up routing, there are three sort
of categories I'd like you to consider,
architecturally speaking.
Earlier, we referred to
the View Components, right, and so
this is where you have your Views
folder at the root level, and
you define page level components.
Examples of this include like Home,
About, Dashboard, these are the same
components that we're going to use
to actually like map our route to.
And this should never get any,
like this is basically the key thing,
the key thing that makes them view
components, whoa, gosh, the view.
The key thing that makes
them like V-I-E-W components
is this coupling with the routes.
If there are no routes associated
with a view component,
then you probably should be including
them in the regular components folder.
That's kind of where you
should be thinking about this.
And then, in addition,
this was actually brought up earlier
regarding presentational components.
I actually also recommend creating
a layout components directory,
cuz this is where you have some clear
examples of components that are shared
between pages and
have sort of more global impacts.
So whether that's like a header,
sidebar, these sort of things,
these actually would probably make sense
as the layout components that will
import into the view components.
And, basically combine those
together to form our pages,
that we then obviously fill in
with individual components.
So that's a mental model
worth considering.
And finally, there are the actual routes
that we define inside of our router.
So this will be where we actually
say like, if we go to slash home,
you wanna actually load
up the home component.
And so, for those who haven't used Nuxt,
for example, Nuxt is, so
the framework does a fantastic job
of accessing page level routes.
So that based on how you organize your
dot view files inside of a directory,
it will automatically configure your
routes for you, which is a phenomenal DX,
and one of the many reasons
I think why I love Nuxt.
And so, as you're looking at routing,
especially as your app gets more complex,
definitely look into Nuxt to
see if it can sort of help you
enhance that experience for your team
because Nuxt definitely does a lot
of great things to make
our lives a lot easier.
As far as those main categories now for
organizing your routes, views, and
layers, allowance, one of the technique
that I want you all to know
about is this idea that when you have
router view components being defined,
to actually add a dynamic key to it.
And so what do I mean by that, so
as you go through the router view, so
basically this is the thing that's
switching out your components.
So this is what's being like, if it's on
this page, then you're gonna go ahead and
load up this component.
And so, you'll see what I've done here
in this code snippet is that I've put
a v-bind on the key which we typically
see on a v-for loop, for example.
And I've bound it to the route's full
path, now why are we doing this?
One of the sort of weird quirks of routing
that I've seen on different applications
is that when people are changing routes or
updating sometimes,
they'll notice that nothing has changed.
And basically, the reason for
this is because by default,
view wants to try to be as
performant as possible.
And as a result, what you end up with is
that it'll try to keep certain pieces of
state and not have to re-render
them if it doesn't have to.
And so with routing this, you end up in
sometimes in a weird place where you're
like, I definitely change the parameters,
I'm updating, nothing's happening.
And so, without getting into the internals
and the complexity of it, because this is
something that most people want,
like when most people refresh a page,
they don't just want you to refresh
like a small portion of it.
They want you to refresh the page,
they want a full state reload.
Similarly, if we change route paths,
same deal, normally,
we're reloading everything.
And so, because this is the default,
I recommend using this key property which
binds to the full path of the route.
And basically, this ensures that every
single time that the router view changes
the view, view will trigger a rerender.
And that way,
you can ensure you're getting
the behavior that you're expecting.
So, this is one technique,
definitely to keep in the back of your
pocket when it comes to defining things.
The other one is a tool that I highly
recommend which comes out of yet again,
the phenomenal Nuxt ecosystem,
which is vue-meta.
And so, as we all know, when it comes
to defining SEO, SEO is a big deal,
especially with enterprise grade level
applications where we want to allow people
to search for things and
discoverability is huge.
And so vue-meta is a plugin that you can
add into your app that allows you to
actually define these header properties
basically, programmatically, rather than
having to do it like basically do it in
a way that would be much more painful.
So you can see here that
in this particular example,
by declaring that metaInfo option,
right that function,
you can then define like what
the page title should be.
Inside of your meta, you'll have like,
this is like the meta tags that
you would expect for SEO results.
And so, this you can see, we're defining
the description, but on top of that,
we're actually defining the content.
And so, here, you see that we're actually
dynamically pulling in the username in
this example, to actually then
render that out to the page and so
that SEO-wise, everything looks great.
And so, vue-meta is definitely the tool
to keep in mind when your team or
company's talking about SEO and how to
make sure that all those pieces are being
updated correctly in your app,
vue-meta is the way to go.
The other thing I wanna talk to
you about is lazy loading routes.
And so, we know that when it comes to
building applications, performance is,
it's a big deal.
After all, when we're looking
at delivering bundle sizes,
we want users to load the page
as quickly as humanly possible.
And so one of the things with routing
though is that when you import
a route like directly, so
we can see here with our constant routes.
We have this component Home which you can,
it's usually like you would define
the top as import Home, as you know,
quotation mark at components Home.
When you do that,
just means that it's bundled with,
basically the piece that shipped to
the user immediately, because again,
view is assuming, the bundle is assuming
that you need all of this at once.
But what you can do, what you actually
see, by default, if you add view-routers
plugin to your view app is that any of the
pages beyond that first initial one that
you're basically pretty sure most
people are landing at first,
can then be imported with this function,
right?
And this function this is
a bit of a Webpack thing, but
it's saying to hey, call this thing and
import it dynamically.
And so, you'll see a couple
things that's default about it,
like one that there's this comment block
that tells you the webpackChunkName,
which is part of like just
a configuration for Webpack.
But then, you actually pass
the path that you would expect to
import the component in.
And the beauty of this is because
you've defined it this way,
this means that going forward, when your
code is being built for production, it
will automatically code split these routes
to ensure that only when the user wants
to fetch that thing, then the browser
will make that call to that specific,
basically like code chunk and bring it in.
And so this is for the amount of effort
that it requires, it's a fantastic default
to basically do inside of your routes.JS
when you're defining your various routes.
Again, unless you think that's something
that should be shipped every time cuz
you like saying that you will be
loaded like 80% of the time or
whatever, then that might be an example
not to do lazy loaded routes.
But otherwise, I would recommend
by default, just go ahead and
lazy load your routes and get that
performance boost for very little effort.